hey everyone it's neil patel and welcome
to another day of local seo unlocked
this is our last lesson where i give a
summary over everything if you missed
any of the previous lessons you can find
them all at neilpatel.com training and
click on local seo unlocked before we
dive into this lesson make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
that way you'll get notified as i
release more courses like this
so let's dive right in
according to think with google they say
that local searches with qualifier near
me like pizza near me have grown 150
percent faster than any other local
search queries
that's the power of these near me terms
and there's been a 500 increase in near
me mobile searches and a 900 increase in
near me today slash tonight searches in
which people are looking for
places that are close to them that are
available today or tonight or that are
open
in short local seo is critical if you
want your brick and mortar business to
stay relevant in the next 5 10 or even
20 years
and google is growing extremely fast
local search has exploded and 75 of
searchers start their searches on google
at any given day people conduct more
than 2.2 billion searches and that's
just on google
just think about that 2.2 billion
searches there's roughly 7 billion
people in this world that's a huge chunk
of searches now granted some people are
searching multiple times but still it's
a massive market out there and search
engine optimization is one of the not
only most efficient but it's also one of
the most affordable marketing strategies
out there i started my career picking up
trash at a theme park and i turned to
seo because it allowed me to compete
with the big guys when i didn't have
much money you know you don't get paid
that much picking up trash
and local seo is here to stay it's been
around for a long time
local search is so powerful for small
businesses that four out of five
customers use search to find local
information hence you need to leverage
it because it'll allow your business to
grow faster and there's a lot of hacks
that you can leverage out there and one
of them that i want to share with you is
of course you verify your business once
you submit it to google my business but
there's also a google guarantee search
for google guarantee and if you go
through that a process and you apply for
it with your local business even though
it takes a little bit of time you'll
find that if you do the google guarantee
you'll end up getting way more local
search traffic simple hack that you have
to check out and use if you want more
traffic
and local seo is also a little bit
different than normal seo it doesn't
take as long
there's not as much traffic
but the traffic you do get can convert
extremely well as long as you're going
after the right intent the right
keywords and you're offering what people
are looking for you can do a lot to
optimize for this and of course one
thing that's super important with local
seo that's not as important with
national seo is
your reviews you want to make sure that
you have really good reviews and is
extremely important for local much more
than national because reviews will
dictate and determine how well you show
up in those map listings how much local
business you're going to get because if
you don't have a four and a half star or
higher it's really tough to do as great
from local seo
compared to the people who do because if
you don't someone else is going to offer
better service better products and
they're going to get those ratings to
help them climb to the top
as we're discussing reviews please
please please at no matter no cost
pay-per-view reviews or do
astro turfing if you avoid this by doing
kickbacks or anything that's dodgy to
get reviews
it's going to create the wrong kind of
environment and that's short-sighted
it's not going to help you succeed in
the long run
some advantages of local seo
helps you attract customers for little
to no expense it improves your online
profile you generate more leads and
sales and you grow a cool local
following and you build a community
around you and you're helping people
within your community as well so what
does it take to start your website's
local seo well first off you need to
optimize your website which we covered
over the previous lessons if you haven't
seen that make sure you check it out uh
specifically go over the last lesson
where we discuss on-page and off-page
seo and then the next thing you need to
do is expand to many platforms it's not
just about google and being there's also
tripadvisor yelp
facebook you can create that local page
and don't forget any popular local
review sites or as well as any popular
local bloggers that may be open to
discussing your business because it can
drive sales and a great way to figure
out what's working in your space is you
can use ubersuggest you can search on
ubersuggest you're typing in uh
you know a state that you're in or a
country but what you may not know is
next to the keyword bar and uber
suggests you can actually type in a city
so you can look up all the keywords that
are popular based on your city so
instead of english united states that
you can see on the screenshot you would
change it to new york new york or
whatever city you're in so you can see
buyer intent keywords and that'll help
you find these keywords so that way you
can create that local content because
that's essential with your local
rankings you need to have that content
that doesn't just discuss the keywords
but also discusses anything that's
within your local city that helps people
get a better understanding of the
solutions the services you offer and how
you can help them out of course we
talked about reviews many times and the
reason i keep bringing it up because
it's important research shows that 81 of
people read reviews and check ratings
and more than one in three customers
comment on blogs or contribute to online
forms so you want to be there and
anytime you get bad reviews don't just
hate on the bad reviews try to take that
feedback to heart and improve your
product your service your offering so
that way you can get more positive
reviews in the future and that should
also help you build citations citations
are super important because with your
local efforts these are all signals that
can help you rank towards the top
citations is when people mention your
name or your phone number your website
there's not necessarily a link they're
just mentioning you and that's good
because not every time someone mentions
you they're going to link out to you so
summary if you want to get the most out
of this course review it multiple times
over the next year use all the modules
as your mo road map especially when
you're getting stuck and work with the
lessons and the worksheets and just put
in one hour a day if you have and if you
don't put in a few hours a week and
you'll be off into the races
you're amazing for taking the time to
learn local seo so i want to thank you
and now it's time for you to put
everything that you've learned into
action if you miss any of the previous
lessons you can find them at
neilpatel.com
training and click on local seo unlocked
or you can look at any of my other free
training courses out there as well
thank you thank you thank you very much
if you enjoyed this video like it share
it subscribe to the channel tell your
friends about it and if you just want us
to do your local seo for you check out
my ad agency neil patel digital